>> Speaker 1: So the next thing we're
going to do is persist the state.
So we've seen this done
already with async storage.
We're going to do this
again with async storage.
Originally this, I intended to set
the timestamp with date now instead of
seconds, so I used milliseconds here.
But if you ever need to have a second,
minute, hour, day, or
whatever in milliseconds,
then this is a nice reference for it.
So one second is 1000 milliseconds,
one minute is 60 times 1000 milliseconds,
and then one hour is 60 minutes,
one day is 24 hours, etc.
So let's see what we actually want to
store in our Countdown Storage State.
So I'm gonna create a type
called PersistedCountdownState.
And this is the stuff that we want
to store in our acing storage.
So one thing about notifications is
that once you trigger a notification, so
I'm setting a notification
to be in the future.
And unless it happens or
I cancel it, unless I cancel it, so
I'm sending notification
to be in the future.
And unless I cancel it will get triggered
even though I've set a new notification.
So I want to make sure that I'm storing
the idea of the notification that I
created so
I could cancel it in the future.
So the idea is that let's say that there's
a thing that I need to do every hour and
I do it after 30 minutes, so
that was before my notification.
So I want to cancel notification and
then not get this notification
because I've already done the thing.
So with this we need to store
the currentNotificationId.
Which will be a string or undefined.
Undefined will be the initial state and
for
our history tab let's keep it simple for
now and
we'll just store the array of time stamps
of the past times you completed it.
So completedAtTimestamps.
>> Speaker 1: So
this will be an array of numbers.
>> Speaker 1: Let's also do a storage key.
So const CountdownStorageKey.
So this will be the key that
we're gonna use in acing storage
to store our countdown state against.
So let's call it taskly-countdown.
>> Speaker 1: And this timestamp,
let's call it frequency.
So we're gonna hard-code this.
So in the future,
you could make this UI dynamic, so
the user could create a task for
themselves in the future.
So they could say that,
I wanna do this every two weeks and
here's the thing I wanna do, etc.
But we're gonna just hard code this for
now for simplicity.
So this frequency will denote how
often you need to do the thing.
So I'm gonna set this to 10 seconds for
the time being.
So that will be 10 times 1000, so
this will be 10 milliseconds.
So this is 10 seconds in milliseconds.
And we're gonna hard code this for
now, but
in the future you could build a UI to
let users have defined themselves.
And I'm gonna leave it for 10 seconds for
now because it will be easier to use for
testing.
Now let's add another use state for
the countdownState.
So we'll do a CountdownState and
set CountdownState.
So this will be the persistent state
that we're getting from async storage.
So this will be useState.
And we're gonna start with undefined,
so we'll start with nothing.
And it will be the persisted
CountdownState.
And now, I'm glad another useEffect.
So, you can have as many useEffects as you
want, so you don't need to just have one.
So in this case, because these
are kind of separate interactions,
let's do a separate useEffect.
>> Speaker 1: And let's do the same
as we did with the shopping list.
So we want to initialize by fetching
the countdown state from storage.
So remember, you can't have
async functions in useEffect.
So we'll do const init, which will be an
async function, an async error function.
And this will do const value.
And we're going to get
the countdown state from storage.
So we'll use the utility
functional created area,
which will be getFromStorage.
And we'll pass in the countdown
storage key, which is this.
And setCountdownState to be this value.
And we'll call init.
Now in our interval useEffect
The timestamp will now depend
on the frequency, right.
So here in CompletedAtTimestamps,
we're storing every time
we've completed the things.
So let's say that we're going to
store the last completed first.
So we can do the lastCompletedTimestamp,
And this will be the countdownState,
completedAtTimestamps.
So this might be undefined, so
that's why in Touchscript Land we're gonna
have a question mark here because it's
safely getting the computed timestamps.
And we're gonna get the last compute, so
this will be the first one on the list.
So here in a useEffect,
our timestamp will change.
So the timestamp will depend on
whether you've completed it before.
So if it's completed before,
Okay, so this timestamp will
be when the thing is due by.
So if it's completed before, then we'll
use this last completed timestamp, and
we're going to add the interval or
frequency of how often we want to do it.
So that's why we had to
define it in milliseconds.
So let's do plus frequency.
And otherwise, just to have a default,
if you've never done this before,
if you've never completed the thing
before, we'll just default to date.now.
And lastly, so
passing in anything in this array,
in the use effect, do sparingly and
really think it through.
Because the way use effect
works is it runs every time
The value passed here in this
arguments array is updated.
So in our case, we want to run this every
time this LastCompletedTimestamp changes.
So what will happen is when this changes,
it will clear the interval and
then run this again.
And it's really important to do
this sparingly because for example,
if you had a set state inside the use
effect and then also in the dependencies
array then you would get into
an infinite loop and that will be sad.
Let us hook up this schedule notification.
So we call this schedule notification, but
we want to also then update
the countdown state when we do this.
So.
Okay?
Let's do a let here for
the pushNotificationId.
And this schedule notification
a sync returns a string,
which is the pushNotificationId.
Now, let's update our title
to say that the thing is due.
And then for the trigger, so
when we schedule the notification,
we want it to happen
when our frequency was.
So we'll use this frequency.
This frequency is now millisecond,
in milliseconds, not seconds.
So we'll say the trigger will be
frequency divided by 1000 because
this takes seconds.
And then, so this will be after this else,
so we'll set our push notification.
We want to update our state with
the data that we just added.
So first, and this is the important
tidy up thing, we'll check our
countdown state to see that if there
was already a notification Scheduled.
So let's do countdownState
currentNotificationId.
So if this is not undefined,
we will call await notifications and
it's cancel scheduled notification.
And actually notice that
there is a function for
cancel all skation notifications as well.
So this might be handy in some scenarios.
But in this case,
we know our notification ID.
So we can cancel this
particular notification.
So we'll call cancel notification,
async with notification ID.
And now we'll need the newCountdownState.
So const newCountdownState.
So this will be the persisted
countdownState that we created earlier.
So we'll need to have
the currentNotificationId.
So this will be the push notification
ID that we created here.
So this might be undefined,
but that is fine.
And completedAtTimestamp so
this is our history of past
times we've completed this.
We need to also handle the case,
the initial case where
the countdown state didn't exist.
So let's say that, if countdown
state exists or when it didn't.
So when it didn't, we just do date.now
to add the current timestamp.
And if we already had a countdown state,
then we want to spread the countdown
state to complete our timestamps.
And we want to add the new completion
to the beginning of the array.
So we'll add our date.now here.
Now let's set countdownstate.
And await save to storage, which will need
the countdown storage key and
the new countdown state.
Okay, that was a lot of code and
let's hope it works.
So we'll open this, so
I've never done this before, so it's 0.
So I'm hoping if I do this,
it's going to start counting down and
when it goes to one, we go, right, and
then if I do the thing,
it'll go back to count again.
And let's also check that,
so let's go into the red.
And I'm gonna close this completely and
reopen it.
And I'm hoping that it's in the red,
which means that it's actually persisted.
And let me show you on my Android phone.
Okay, so initially I need to do it once,
so it will start counting.
And now it's gonna count down.
When we go into the red,
which is excellent.
So I didn't get a notification
because I'm in the app.
So let me say that I've done the thing and
I background the app.
So I'm expecting to get
a notification in a couple
of seconds saying that this saying is do.
Beautiful and
the other thing that we want to check that
the notification gets canceled if
I do the thing before it's due.
So let's say that I've done the thing and
then I'm going to do it three
more times before it gets to red.
So I'm waiting a couple of seconds.
And then I background it.
So even though I've now done it three
times, I'm expecting to only get one
notification because the other
two should have been canceled.
And I do so, that is the value
of canceling the notification.